Docu update (#562)
smart-data-lake/smart-data-lake: docs/reference/dataObjects.md

---
id: dataObjects
title: Data Objects
---

> DataObjects are the core element of Smart data Lake Builder. These objects define the properties, including location, type and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataObjects are the core element of Smart data Lake Builder. These objects define data entities and how they can be accessed by properties including location, type and others.

```

Furthermore, a section with metadata can be used. 

For a list of features please see the [Schema Viewer](http://smartdatalake.ch/json-schema-viewer/index.html).

## Object Types
Smart Data Lake Builder supports beside a list of file types, database objects and general connectors. 

Examples: 

* file based: CSV, JSON, XML, Parquet, ...
* database based: JDBC, DeltaLake, ...
* connectors: Airbyte, sFTP

## Schema

> SDLB required a schema for each data object. This can be specified manually, with an option in the dataObject, delivered by the connector or infered from data (sampling). The latter enables fast development, but should be avoided in production. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDLB required a schema for data object that can create DataFrames, if they are used as starting point of a DAG. The schema can be
- specified manually with an option in the dataObject
- specified by adding a sample file or
- inferred from data (sampling).
The latter enables fast development, but should be avoided in production. 
```

> By default SDLB will verify that new data have fit to the existing schema, otherwise an error will be thrown. If wanted schema evolution can be enabled using **allowSchemaEvolution**. Then, old row will get null in new columns and new rows get null in old (not existing anymore) columns. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default SDLB will verify that new data fits the existing schema, otherwise an error will be thrown. If desired schema evolution can be enabled using **allowSchemaEvolution** on several DataObjects, e.g. JdbcTableDataObject and DeltaLakeTableObject. Then, old rows will get null in new columns and new rows get null in old (not existing anymore) columns. 
```
